Spring also provides persistent token Remember me.
The way this works is that rather than providing the signature
in the cookie with the user's credentials,
Spring validates that the token exists in the database.
The cookies only contain a series identifier.
This identifies the initial login of a user and remains consistent each time a
user is automatically logged in with the remember- me cookie.
The token value,
a unique value that changes each time a user is
authenticated using the remember-me cookie.
Basically, if the session expires and the remember-me cookie is present,
it will look at the database using the series identifier
and confirm the token value matches, authenticating the user,
and then generating a new token value for each time.
Now the benefits include no credentials in the cookie.
If the remember-me cookie is leaked and used by a third party,
the next time the user accesses the page,
their token value will be out of date.
A warning with the last access date can be presented to the user.
The user can then simply log out or re- authenticate with Remember me,
invalidating the hacker's cookie.
Setting is up is easy.
If you are using a database,
then all you need to do is create the following table.
Spring provides a JDBC token repository.
You just provide it with your data source and add it to the Remember me
filter builder using the tokenRepository property.
Spring will do the rest.
Now in our case, we are using MongoDB, so we need a custom one.
Simply create a class that implements the
PersistentTokenRepository interface and overrides the createNewToken,
updateToken, getTokenForSeries, and removeTokens method.
Add the Component annotation, inject it into your Configuration class,
and add it to the tokenRepository property.
Now if authentication is performed by the Remember me filter and
the user has two- factor authentication enabled,
then you need to forward them to the two- factor authentication login page.
Hence, we also need to add the authenticationSuccessHandler to do that.
That's it.
Spring will do the rest.
Again, if a third party gets the cookie,
they will have access to the site until the user accesses the site again.
And if the hacker gets a hold of the data in the persisting login table,
then they can use it to bypass the login page and,
in effect, get around bcrypt.
Hence,
it is good practice to request the user to re-authenticate
before performing any sensitive operations,
like transferring funds, changing passwords,
accessing sensitive data.
Just think of Amazon.
They allow you to view the product catalog,
add items to your basket without have to
re-authenticate if you have a persistent cookie.
However, as soon as you check out, they will ask you to re-authenticate. Hence, you need to find the right balance between user experience and security.